adr-0054 Allow Application Developer write access to Endpoints and EndpointSlices after Proper Risk Acceptance (#964)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/adr/0054-allow-low-vulnerability-cve.md

> # Allowance of low vulnerability CVEs after Proper Risk Acceptance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Allow Application Developer write access to Endpoints and EndpointSlices after Proper Risk Acceptance
```

- Status: Accepted
- Deciders: Arch Meeting
- Date: 2024-02-08

## Context and Problem Statement

Our Platform strives to balance security with flexibility. In doing so, we frequently encounter trade-offs between ensuring robust security and maintaining full Platform functionality. The presence of low-risk vulnerabilities [CVE-2021-25740](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/103675) related to Endpoints and EndpointSlices objects introduces several risks, primarily involving cross-namespace traffic that can bypass intended security controls.

This means that applications hosted in the Workload Cluster and running in one namespace could potentially interact with or access services in another namespace, thereby breaching the intended security isolation.

> Should low-risk CVEs [CVE-2021-25740](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/103675), be allowed to create Endpoints and EndpointSlices objects on our platform if Application Developers properly understand and accept the associated risks?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should we allow application developers to create Endpoints and EndpointSlices objects on our Platform?
```

## Decision Drivers

- We want to maintain Platform security and stability.
- We want to avoid operational complexity.
- We want to best serve the Application Developers.
- We want to make the Platform Administrator life easier.

## Considered Options

> 1. Allow the use of Endpoints and EndpointSlices affected by [CVE-2021-25740](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/103675) vulnerabilities but only after Application Developer accepted the downtime and security risks.

Reviewer: I propose a few improvements:

1. Given that the context is above, I think we should avoid repeating it here.
2. Let's always start with "not doing anything" or "no".
3. I don't think there is any downtime involved for changing RBACs, so it's really only about accepting the risk.

```suggestion
1. Allow creation and editing of Endpoints and EndpointSlices by default.
1. Disallow creation and editing of Endpoints and EndpointSlices by default.
1. Never allow creation and editing of Endpoints and EndpointSlices.
1. Allow creation and editing of Endpoints and EndpointSlices, but only after Application Developer accepted the security risks.
```

> 1. Restrict the use of Endpoints and EndpointSlices affected by [CVE-2021-25740](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/103675) vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: Can be removed.

```suggestion
```
